docs/index.md, before:

---
hide:
  - navigation
  - title
---
# Welcome to Forensicswiki


The Forensicswiki is an opensouce website,  that provides information related to [digital forensics](digital_forensics.md).  The articles on the website cover a wide range of information from <a href="tags/#tools">tools</a> used during investigations to <a href="tags/#papers">papers</a>, <a href="tags/#people">people</a>, and <a href="tags/#organizations">organizations</a> that contribute to the field.  

Please see the community page if you would like to [contribute](community.md).  

## Discover Content 

### Tags
In order to make content discoverable, articles are being categorized using <a href="tags">tags</a>.  Each page on this website is labled with <a href="tags">tags</a>.  The page could have one tag or multiple tags depending on the content of the site.  Tags are placed at the top of the article.

For example, the [Full Disk Encryption](full_disk_encryption.md) article has three tags: <a href="tags/#encryption">Encryption</a>, <a href="tags/#disk-encrypton">Disk Encryption</a> and <a href="tags/#anti-forensics">Anti-forensics</a>.  If you clicked on anyone of the tags, it will bring you to all content categorized under that tag.

### Topics 
<html>
<head>
<style>
#tags {
  border-collapse: collapse;
  width: 100%;
}

#tags td, #tags th {
  border: 1px solid #ddd;
  font-size: 15px;
}

#tags tr:nth-child(even){background-color: #f2f2f2;}

#tags tr:hover {background-color: #ddd;}

#tags th {
  padding-top: 12px;
  padding-bottom: 12px;
  text-align: left;
  background-color: #04AA6D;
  color: white;
}
</style>
</head>
</html>

<body>
<table id="Tags">
  <tr>
    <th>tags</th>
    <th>Articles</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="tags/#operating-systems">Operating Systems</a></td> 
    <td width="1000">
    <ui><li><a href="windows">Windows</a>: <a href="windows_vista">windows_vista</a>, <a href="windows_7">windows 7</a>, <a href="windows_8">windows 8</a>, <a href="windows_10">windows 10</a></ui></li>
    <ui><li><a href="unix">Unix</a>: <a href="freebsd">freebsd</a>, <a href="netbsd">netbsd</a>, <a href="openbsd">openbsd</a>, <a href="solaris">solaris</a>, <a href="aix">aix</a></ui></li>
    <ui><li><a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mobile_operating_system">Mobile OS</a>: <a href="android">android</a>, <a href="ios">ios</a>, <a href="microsoft_windows_mobile">windows mobile</ui></li>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="tags/#tools">Tools</a></td>
    <td width="1000">
    <ui><li><a href="tags/#file_analysis">File Analysis</a>: <a href="bless">bless</a>, <a href="ghirda">ghirda</a>, <a href="pst_file_viewer> PST File Viewer</a><a href="hachoir">hachoir</a></ui></li>
    <ui><li><a href="tags/#timeline_analysis">Timeline Analysis</a>: <a href="timesketch">timesketch</a>, <a href="aftertime">aftertime</a>, <a href="plaso">plaso</a></ui></li>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</body>


##  Articles that need to be expanded

There are a number of <a href="tags/#articles-that-need-to-be-expanded">articles</a> that could use some love.  If you want to help out please read about [contributing](community.md)

##  Find us on Github

The Forensicswiki is now on [Github](https://github.com/forensicswiki/wiki)

Commit message:

Update main page with link to "Transitioning" blog post.

docs/index.md, after:

---
hide:
  - navigation
  - title
---
# Welcome to the Forensics Wiki

> The Forensics Wiki has transitioned to this new domain and platform; read more about it at [Transitioning Forensics Wiki to GitHub](https://osdfir.blogspot.com/2022/11/transitioning-forensics-wiki-to-github.html).

The Forensics Wiki is an open source website providing information related to digital forensics.  The articles on the website cover a wide range of information from <a href="tags/#tools">tools</a> used during investigations to <a href="tags/#papers">papers</a>, <a href="tags/#people">people</a>, and <a href="tags/#organizations">organizations</a> that contribute to the field.  

Please see the community page if you would like to [contribute](community.md).  

## Discover Content 

### Tags
In order to make content discoverable, articles are being categorized using <a href="tags">tags</a>.  Each page on this website is labeled with <a href="tags">tags</a>.  The page could have one tag or multiple tags depending on the content of the site.  Tags are placed at the top of the article.

For example, the [Full Disk Encryption](full_disk_encryption.md) article has three tags: <a href="tags/#encryption">Encryption</a>, <a href="tags/#disk-encrypton">Disk Encryption</a> and <a href="tags/#anti-forensics">Anti-forensics</a>.  If you clicked on anyone of the tags, it will bring you to all content categorized under that tag.

### Topics 
<html>
<head>
<style>
#tags {
  border-collapse: collapse;
  width: 100%;
}

#tags td, #tags th {
  border: 1px solid #ddd;
  font-size: 15px;
}

#tags tr:nth-child(even){background-color: #f2f2f2;}

#tags tr:hover {background-color: #ddd;}

#tags th {
  padding-top: 12px;
  padding-bottom: 12px;
  text-align: left;
  background-color: #04AA6D;
  color: white;
}
</style>
</head>
</html>

<body>
<table id="Tags">
  <tr>
    <th>tags</th>
    <th>Articles</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="tags/#operating-systems">Operating Systems</a></td> 
    <td width="1000">
    <ui><li><a href="windows">Windows</a>: <a href="windows_vista">windows_vista</a>, <a href="windows_7">windows 7</a>, <a href="windows_8">windows 8</a>, <a href="windows_10">windows 10</a></ui></li>
    <ui><li><a href="unix">Unix</a>: <a href="freebsd">freebsd</a>, <a href="netbsd">netbsd</a>, <a href="openbsd">openbsd</a>, <a href="solaris">solaris</a>, <a href="aix">aix</a></ui></li>
    <ui><li><a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mobile_operating_system">Mobile OS</a>: <a href="android">android</a>, <a href="ios">ios</a>, <a href="microsoft_windows_mobile">windows mobile</ui></li>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="tags/#tools">Tools</a></td>
    <td width="1000">
    <ui><li><a href="tags/#file_analysis">File Analysis</a>: <a href="bless">bless</a>, <a href="ghirda">ghirda</a>, <a href="pst_file_viewer> PST File Viewer</a><a href="hachoir">hachoir</a></ui></li>
    <ui><li><a href="tags/#timeline_analysis">Timeline Analysis</a>: <a href="timesketch">timesketch</a>, <a href="aftertime">aftertime</a>, <a href="plaso">plaso</a></ui></li>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</body>


##  Articles that need to be expanded

There are a number of <a href="tags/#articles-that-need-to-be-expanded">articles</a> that could use some love.  If you want to help out please read about [contributing](community.md)

##  Contribute on to the Forensics Wiki on GitHub

The Forensics Wiki is now on [GitHub](https://github.com/forensicswiki/wiki) and accepting content contributions from the community. Please see the [community page](community.md) for instructions if you would like to add or edit content.
