docs/list_of_windows_mru_locations.md, before:

---
tags:
  - No Category
---
## Common

**Regedit - Last accessed key**


Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Applets\Regedit

**Regedit - Favorites**


Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Applets\Regedit\Favorites

**MSPaint - Recent Files**


Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Applets\Paint\Recent File List

**Wordpad - Recent Files**


Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Applets\Wordpad\Recent File
List

**Common Dialog - Open**


Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\ComDlg32\LastVisitedMRU

**Common Dialog - Save As**


Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\ComDlg32\OpenSaveMRU

**WMP8 XP - Recent Files**


Software\Microsoft\MediaPlayer\Player\RecentFileList

**WMP 8 XP - Recent URLs**


Software\Microsoft\MediaPlayer\Player\RecentURLList

**OE6 Stationery list 1 - New Mail**


Identities\\{C19958F2-22F3-4C6A-9AE0-12049CE0706F}\Software\Microsoft\Outlook
Express\5.0\Recent Stationery List (ID=example)

**OE 6 Stationery list 2 - New Mail**


Identities\\{C19958F2-22F3-4C6A-9AE0-12049CE0706F}\Software\Microsoft\Outlook
Express\5.0\Recent Stationery Wide List (ID=example)

**Map Network Drives**


HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\Map
Network Drive MRU

## Windows 2000/XP

***Recently Used Files***


C:\Documents and Settings\User\Recent

**XP Search Files**


Software\Microsoft\Search Assistant\ACMru\5603

**Internet Search Assistant**


Software\Microsoft\Search Assistant\ACMru\5001

**Printers, Computers and People**


Software\Microsoft\Search Assistant\ACMru\5647

**XP Start Menu - Recent**


Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\RecentDocs

**Remote Desktop - Connect**


Software\Microsoft\Terminal Server Client\Default \[MRUnumber\]

**Run dialog box**


Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\RunMRU

## Windows ME, 98, and 95

**Doc Find Spec MRU**


HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\Doc
Find Spec MRU

**Find Computer**


HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\FindComputerMRU

**Printer Ports**


HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\PrnPortsMRU

**Run**


HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\RunMRU

**Window Size/Position**


HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\StreamMRU

## Microsoft Office 2000

**Winword - Open**


Software\Microsoft\Office\9.0\Common\Open Find\Microsoft
Word\Settings\Open\File Name MRU

**Winword - Save As**


Software\Microsoft\Office\9.0\Common\Open Find\Microsoft
Word\Settings\Save As\File Name MRU

**Winword - Recent Files**


Software\Microsoft\Office\9.0\Word\Data

**Excel - Open**


Software\Microsoft\Office\9.0\Common\Open Find\Microsoft
Excel\Settings\Open\File Name MRU

**Excel - Save As**


Software\Microsoft\Office\9.0\Common\Open Find\Microsoft
Excel\Settings\Save As\File Name MRU

**Excel - Recent Files**


Software\Microsoft\Office\9.0\Excel\Recent Files

**Frontpage - Open**


Software\Microsoft\Office\9.0\Common\Open Find\Microsoft
FrontPage\Settings\Open File\File Name MRU

**Frontpage - Save As**


Software\Microsoft\Office\9.0\Common\Open Find\Microsoft
FrontPage\Settings\Save As\File Name MRU

**Frontpage - Recent lists**


Software\Microsoft\FrontPage\Explorer\FrontPage Explorer\Recent File
List

Software\Microsoft\FrontPage\Explorer\FrontPage Explorer\Recent Page
List

Software\Microsoft\FrontPage\Explorer\FrontPage Explorer\Recent Web List

Software\Microsoft\FrontPage\Explorer\FrontPage Explorer\Recently
Created Servers

Software\Microsoft\FrontPage\Editor\Recently Used URLs

**PowerPoint - Open**


Software\Microsoft\Office\9.0\Common\Open Find\Microsoft
PowerPoint\Settings\Open\File Name MRU

**PowerPoint - Save As**


Software\Microsoft\Office\9.0\Common\Open Find\Microsoft
PowerPoint\Settings\Save As\File Name MRU

**PowerPoint - Recent Files**


Software\Microsoft\Office\9.0\PowerPoint\Recent File List

**Access - Open**


Software\Microsoft\Office\9.0\Common\Open Find\Microsoft
Access\Settings\Open\File Name MRU

**Access - Filename MRU**


Software\Microsoft\Office\9.0\Common\Open Find\Microsoft
Access\Settings\File New Database\File Name MRU

Software\Microsoft\Office\9.0\Access\Settings

## Internet Explorer

**Recently Entered Addresses**


USERNAME\software\microsoft\internet explorer\typedurls

**Last Directory Saved To**


USERNAME\software\microsoft\internet explorer

## Adobe

**Media Browser**


HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Adobe\MediaBrowser\MRU

**Acrobat 5.0 Full**


HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\ADOBE\Adobe
Acrobat\5.0\AVGeneral\cRecentFiles

**Acrobat Reader 5.0**


HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Adobe\Acrobat
Reader\5.0\AVGeneral\cRecentFiles

**Acrobat 8.0 Standard**


HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Adobe\Adobe
Acrobat\8.0\AVGeneral\cRecentFiles

## Windows Explorer

**List of Recent Programs Opened**


HKEY_USERS\USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\ComDlg32\LastVisitedMRU

**Save Locations by Filetype**


HKEY_USERS\USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\ComDlg32\OpenSaveMRU

**Most Recent Application's Use of DirectX**


software\microsoft\direct3d\mostrecentapplication

**List of Recent Files Opened, by Filetype**


USERNAME\software\microsoft\windows\currentversion\explorer\recentdocs

## Kazaa

**Recent Search List**


USERNAME\software\kazaa\search

## Registry Editor

**Last Key Accessed**


USERNAME\software\microsoft\windows\currentversion\applets\regedit

## Sources

[Registry MRU
Locations](https://www.daniweb.com/digital-media/ui-ux-design/tutorials/66079/forms-styling-text-fields-with-css-and-html)

[How to Clear the Windows Explorer MRU
Lists](http://support.microsoft.com/kb/142298)

[What are MRU files and why are they a security
risk?](http://209.85.215.104/search?q=cache:ztqvo2Bfk9UJ:www.daniweb.com/forums/thread13426.html+adobe+MRU+location&hl=en&ct=clnk&cd=2&gl=us&client=firefox-a)

[Removing MRU List from Mapped Network
Drives](https://www.windowsbbs.com/threads/removing-mru-list-from-mapped-network-drives.47519/)

Commit message:

Corrected links to missing wiki and external articles (#164)

docs/list_of_windows_mru_locations.md, after:

---
tags:
  - Articles that need to be expanded
  - Registry Analysis
  - Windows
---
## Common

**Regedit - Last accessed key**


Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Applets\Regedit

**Regedit - Favorites**


Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Applets\Regedit\Favorites

**MSPaint - Recent Files**


Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Applets\Paint\Recent File List

**Wordpad - Recent Files**


Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Applets\Wordpad\Recent File
List

**Common Dialog - Open**


Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\ComDlg32\LastVisitedMRU

**Common Dialog - Save As**


Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\ComDlg32\OpenSaveMRU

**WMP8 XP - Recent Files**


Software\Microsoft\MediaPlayer\Player\RecentFileList

**WMP 8 XP - Recent URLs**


Software\Microsoft\MediaPlayer\Player\RecentURLList

**OE6 Stationery list 1 - New Mail**


Identities\\{C19958F2-22F3-4C6A-9AE0-12049CE0706F}\Software\Microsoft\Outlook
Express\5.0\Recent Stationery List (ID=example)

**OE 6 Stationery list 2 - New Mail**


Identities\\{C19958F2-22F3-4C6A-9AE0-12049CE0706F}\Software\Microsoft\Outlook
Express\5.0\Recent Stationery Wide List (ID=example)

**Map Network Drives**


HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\Map
Network Drive MRU

## Windows 2000/XP

***Recently Used Files***


C:\Documents and Settings\User\Recent

**XP Search Files**


Software\Microsoft\Search Assistant\ACMru\5603

**Internet Search Assistant**


Software\Microsoft\Search Assistant\ACMru\5001

**Printers, Computers and People**


Software\Microsoft\Search Assistant\ACMru\5647

**XP Start Menu - Recent**


Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\RecentDocs

**Remote Desktop - Connect**


Software\Microsoft\Terminal Server Client\Default \[MRUnumber\]

**Run dialog box**


Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\RunMRU

## Windows ME, 98, and 95

**Doc Find Spec MRU**


HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\Doc
Find Spec MRU

**Find Computer**


HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\FindComputerMRU

**Printer Ports**


HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\PrnPortsMRU

**Run**


HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\RunMRU

**Window Size/Position**


HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\StreamMRU

## Microsoft Office 2000

**Winword - Open**


Software\Microsoft\Office\9.0\Common\Open Find\Microsoft
Word\Settings\Open\File Name MRU

**Winword - Save As**


Software\Microsoft\Office\9.0\Common\Open Find\Microsoft
Word\Settings\Save As\File Name MRU

**Winword - Recent Files**


Software\Microsoft\Office\9.0\Word\Data

**Excel - Open**


Software\Microsoft\Office\9.0\Common\Open Find\Microsoft
Excel\Settings\Open\File Name MRU

**Excel - Save As**


Software\Microsoft\Office\9.0\Common\Open Find\Microsoft
Excel\Settings\Save As\File Name MRU

**Excel - Recent Files**


Software\Microsoft\Office\9.0\Excel\Recent Files

**Frontpage - Open**


Software\Microsoft\Office\9.0\Common\Open Find\Microsoft
FrontPage\Settings\Open File\File Name MRU

**Frontpage - Save As**


Software\Microsoft\Office\9.0\Common\Open Find\Microsoft
FrontPage\Settings\Save As\File Name MRU

**Frontpage - Recent lists**


Software\Microsoft\FrontPage\Explorer\FrontPage Explorer\Recent File
List

Software\Microsoft\FrontPage\Explorer\FrontPage Explorer\Recent Page
List

Software\Microsoft\FrontPage\Explorer\FrontPage Explorer\Recent Web List

Software\Microsoft\FrontPage\Explorer\FrontPage Explorer\Recently
Created Servers

Software\Microsoft\FrontPage\Editor\Recently Used URLs

**PowerPoint - Open**


Software\Microsoft\Office\9.0\Common\Open Find\Microsoft
PowerPoint\Settings\Open\File Name MRU

**PowerPoint - Save As**


Software\Microsoft\Office\9.0\Common\Open Find\Microsoft
PowerPoint\Settings\Save As\File Name MRU

**PowerPoint - Recent Files**


Software\Microsoft\Office\9.0\PowerPoint\Recent File List

**Access - Open**


Software\Microsoft\Office\9.0\Common\Open Find\Microsoft
Access\Settings\Open\File Name MRU

**Access - Filename MRU**


Software\Microsoft\Office\9.0\Common\Open Find\Microsoft
Access\Settings\File New Database\File Name MRU

Software\Microsoft\Office\9.0\Access\Settings

## Internet Explorer

**Recently Entered Addresses**


USERNAME\software\microsoft\internet explorer\typedurls

**Last Directory Saved To**


USERNAME\software\microsoft\internet explorer

## Adobe

**Media Browser**


HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Adobe\MediaBrowser\MRU

**Acrobat 5.0 Full**


HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\ADOBE\Adobe
Acrobat\5.0\AVGeneral\cRecentFiles

**Acrobat Reader 5.0**


HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Adobe\Acrobat
Reader\5.0\AVGeneral\cRecentFiles

**Acrobat 8.0 Standard**


HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Adobe\Adobe
Acrobat\8.0\AVGeneral\cRecentFiles

## Windows Explorer

**List of Recent Programs Opened**


HKEY_USERS\USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\ComDlg32\LastVisitedMRU

**Save Locations by Filetype**


HKEY_USERS\USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\ComDlg32\OpenSaveMRU

**Most Recent Application's Use of DirectX**


software\microsoft\direct3d\mostrecentapplication

**List of Recent Files Opened, by Filetype**


USERNAME\software\microsoft\windows\currentversion\explorer\recentdocs

## Kazaa

**Recent Search List**


USERNAME\software\kazaa\search

## Registry Editor

**Last Key Accessed**


USERNAME\software\microsoft\windows\currentversion\applets\regedit

## External Links

* [Registry MRU Locations](https://www.daniweb.com/digital-media/ui-ux-design/tutorials/66079/forms-styling-text-fields-with-css-and-html)
* [How to Clear the Windows Explorer MRU Lists](http://support.microsoft.com/kb/142298)
* [Removing MRU List from Mapped Network Drives](https://www.windowsbbs.com/threads/removing-mru-list-from-mapped-network-drives.47519/)
