---
tags:
  - Linux
  - Network Forensics
  - Tools
  - Windows
---
## Overview

**ntop** is a network traffic probe that shows the network usage, similar to
what the popular top [Unix](unix.md) command does. ntop is based on libpcap and
it has been written in a portable way in order to virtually run on every
[Unix](unix.md) platform and on [Win32](windows.md) as well.

ntop users can use a a web browser to navigate through ntop (that acts
as a web server) traffic information and get a dump of the network
status.[1](http://www.ntop.org/products/ntop/)

## What ntop can do for me?

- Sort network traffic according to many protocols
- Show network traffic sorted according to various criteria
- Display traffic statistics
- Store on disk persistent traffic statistics in RRD format
- Identify the indentity (e.g. email address) of computer users
- Passively (i.e. without sending probe packets) identify the host OS
- Show IP traffic distribution among the various protocols
- Analyse IP traffic and sort it according to the source/destination
- Display IP Traffic Subnet matrix (who’s talking to who?)
- Report IP protocol usage sorted by protocol type
- Act as a NetFlow/sFlowcollector for flows generated by routers (e.g.
  Cisco and Juniper) or switches (e.g. Foundry Networks)
- Produce RMON-like network traffic statistics

## Platforms

- Unix (including Linux, \*BSD, Solaris, and MacOSX)
- Win32 (Win95 and above including Vista

## Media

- Loopback
- Ethernet (including 802.11Q)
- Token Ring
- PPP/PPPoE
- Raw IP
- FDDI
- FibreChannel
- ...and many more

## Requirements

### Memory Usage

- It depends on the ntop configuration, number of hosts, and number of
  active TCP sessions. In general it ranges from a few MB (little LAN)
  to 100 MB for a WAN.

### CPU Usage

- It depends on the ntop configuration, and traffic conditions. On a
  modern PC and large LAN, it is less than 10% of overall CPU load.

## Protocols

- IPv4/IPv6
- IPX
- DecNet
- AppleTalk
- Netbios
- OSI
- DLC
- …and many more

## IP Protocols

- Fully User Configurable

## Additional Features

- VoIP support (SIP, Cisco SCCP and Asterisk IAX)
- NetFlow (including v5 and v9) and IPFIX support
- Network Flows
- Local Traffic Analysis
- Multithread and MP (MultiProcessor) support on both Unix and Win32
- Python lightweight API for extending ntop via scripts
- Support of both NetFlow andsFlowas flow collector. ntop can collect
  simultaneously from multiple probes.
- Traffic statistics are saved into RRDdatabases for long-run traffic
  analysis.
- Internet Domain, AS (Autonomous Systems), VLAN (Virtual LAN)
  Statistics
- Network assets discovery and categorization according to their OS and
  users
- Protocol decoders for many internet protocols
- Advanced ‘per user’ HTTP password protection with encrypted passwords
- RRDsupport for persistently storing per-host traffic information
- Passive remote host fingerprint (Courtesy of ettercap)
- HTTPS (Secure HTTP via OpenSSL)
- Virtual/multiple network interfaces support
- Graphical ntop launcher (Win32 only)

## External Links

* [Get ntop](http://www.ntop.org/get-started/download/)

## Sources

* [ntop.org](http://www.ntop.org/products/ntop/)
