docs/online_resources.md, before:

---
tags:
  -  Research
---
There are lots of web sites that can provide valuable information for
forensic investigators. (This page will probably be broken into
categories eventually...)

## WHOIS Queries

The WHOIS Service can be used to find the owner of a domain. Sometimes
this is only sufficient to find the registrar for a domain, but even
that is a start.

- [WHOIS-Search.com](http://whois-search.com/)

The SamSpade web site also offers several WHOIS related searches

- [Sam Spade](http://www.samspade.org/)

## Web Page Archives

Web page archives can give the investigator a look at what a web page
used to look like. The most well known is the [Google
cache](http://www.google.com/help/features.html#cached), but here are
some others:

- [The Internet Archive's WayBack Machine](http://web.archive.org) can
  produce a nicely formatted page showing how a web site looked on
  certain dates. For example, [the history of yahoo.com's
  homepage](http://web.archive.org/web/*/http://www.yahoo.com/) gives a
  nice history lesson. The machine records both main pages and subpages.
  For example, note the changes in time between [Jesse
  Kornblum](jesse_kornblum.md)'s [Yahoo!
  profile](http://web.archive.org/web/*/http://www.profiles.yahoo.com/jessekornblum).

Commit message:

Corrected links to missing wiki and external articles (#121)

docs/online_resources.md, after:

---
tags:
  - Articles that need to be expanded
  - Research
---
There are lots of web sites that can provide valuable information for
forensic investigators.

## WHOIS Queries

The WHOIS Service can be used to find the owner of a domain. Sometimes
this is only sufficient to find the registrar for a domain, but even
that is a start.

- [WHOIS-Search.com](https://whois-search.com/)

## Web Page Archives

Web page archives can give the investigator a look at what a web page
used to look like. The most well known is the [Google
cache](http://www.google.com/help/features.html#cached), but here are
some others:

- [The Internet Archive's WayBack Machine](http://web.archive.org) can
  produce a nicely formatted page showing how a web site looked on
  certain dates. For example, [the history of yahoo.com's
  homepage](http://web.archive.org/web/*/http://www.yahoo.com/) gives a
  nice history lesson. The machine records both main pages and subpages.
  For example, note the changes in time between [Jesse
  Kornblum](jesse_kornblum.md)'s [Yahoo!
  profile](http://web.archive.org/web/*/http://www.profiles.yahoo.com/jessekornblum).
