*Outlook PST Viewer* is a freeware file reader developed for data
examination purpose by [SysTools](SysTools "wikilink") Software. The
program is a standalone application to read Personal Storage Table file
without Microsoft Outlook. PST Viewer contributes to investigative
requirements of examiners by reading PST file(s) in a standalone mode.
Moreover, all contents of the data file are readable with the freeware
in a detailed manner via categorized preview tabs.

# Summary

Outlook PST Viewer is developed and marketed by SysTools Software Pvt.
Ltd. Officially launched and released on July 26, 2013, Outlook PST
Viewer was the second freeware file reader launched by SysTools
Software. Later, in the same year the application was further made
upgradable to a Pro Version. The launch was followed by a number of
version upgrades in the years that followed.

# Product Overview

Outlook PST Viewer is a freeware file reader that works as a standalone
for opening Personal Storage Table file(s). The application is built and
programmed keeping in mind investigative requirements of digital
examiners that encounter orphan data files. PST Viewer is a Windows
based utility thus, is compatible with all versions of the OS; Windows
10, Windows 8 series, and previous ones. The software programming
supports reading both; Outlook 98 to 2002 version based ANSI and Outlook
2003 & later version Unicode type PST files.

# Features

Outlook PST file viewer utility is programmed with algorithms that make
it responsible for reading data file disregarding its healthy or corrupt
state. The built of this program allows reading PST artifacts on a
single unit Graphical User Interface without the requirement of
navigations. Besides emails, the application reads and displays the
preview of other components in the data file.

## Standalone PST Reader

PST Viewer can open and read Outlook Data File in a standalone mode. The
option enables examiners to read the PST format files without the
requirement of Microsoft Outlook install / configuration. The
availability of Outlook on the respective machine does not make any
difference to the software functioning. The program is compatible with
all versions of MS Office. Nevertheless, there is no requirement of the
program to be available for the software to work.

## All Component Preview

An Outlook data file comprises of more than just email messages. The
application is programmed to support reading and displaying the preview
of all items that the selected PST file consists of. Selecting the Email
tab gives a complete view of the email folder list and message list of
the selected folder. A preview of the selected message is provided by
the tool just below the list of emails. Respectively, selecting other
components gives a preview of their contents whereas, choosing Folder
List option gives a collective preview of all items in a single view.

## File Scanning Modes

The application is programmed to process intact and damaged Outlook Data
Files. The tool is integrated with two file scanning modes for
processing data file in both states. Quick Scan is to process intact PST
for standalone reading of contents. Advance Scan is featured in the tool
for thoroughly scanning damaged PST file(s) to be processed in a
readable format by the software. Quick scan works faster as compared to
Advance scan yet; the latter is preferable in conditions where the data
file is not in an accessible form.

## Corrupt Outlook PST

Outlook data files become inaccessible / unreadable when in a damaged
condition. The application delivers support for damaged Outlook data
files along with healthy files. Outlook data files are generally damaged
due to insufficient storage space issues, header manipulation, malware
intrusion, and more. The utility processes such files with the provision
of Advance Scan mode. The scan facilitates processing of damaged files
and the PST files with lost data with the revival of the lost data for
preview.

## PST Types Supported

Outlook PST Viewer offers support to both types of PST data files.
Outlook versions classify PST file types of both types ANSI and Unicode.
ANSI type PST file belong to earliest versions of Microsoft Outlook - 98
to 2002 whereas Unicode is generated by the latest versions - 2003 and
all afterwards. The application is programmed to process both PST file
types of all given sizes for standalone reading.

## Protected PST File

The program is built with standalone potential to preview Outlook Data
File contents. The provision remains equally consistent even in the case
of protected PST files. Outlook PST Viewer is designed with the ability
to process and read PST files protected with passwords. The application
does not require the provision of password for granting the access of
the file to end user. However, the provision is made for legal /
investigative purposes only.

# Licensing

Licensing related information can be read on the official website.

# Support

Technical support is rendered in the forms of email communication,
instant chat, phone, ticket service, and demonstration for
representation purpose to resolve operational and technical
uncertainties.

## External Links

- [Official Website](http://www.systoolsgroup.com/)
- [Free PST Viewer](http://www.bitrecover.com/free/pst-viewer/)

[Category:Analysis](Category:Analysis "wikilink") [Category:Free
software](Category:Free_software "wikilink")