---
tags:
  - No Category
---
## PC-3000

PC-3000 is a trademark of [ACE Lab](https://www.acelab.eu.com/)
company located in Eastern Europe. It encompasses a range of drive
repair and data recovery hardware-software solutions:

- PC-3000 Express (hardware+software)
- PC-3000 UDMA (hardware+software)
- PC-3000 Portable (hardware+software, good for evidence acquisition)
- PC-3000 SAS (hardware+software)
- PC-3000 Flash (hardware+software)
- PC-3000 SSD (software)
- Data Extractor (software, has forensic features)

These tools are believed to be most reliable and powerful by over 15000
data recovery companies and engineers worldwide. PC-3000 software
supports Windows OS, NT family.

## <span id="PC-3000 Express"></span> PC-3000 Express

The PC-3000 Express Professional System is the most efficient
hardware-software solution for recovering data from damaged HDDs based
on SATA (Serial ATA) or PATA (IDE) interfaces for numerous vendors
(Seagate, Western Digital, Fujitsu, Samsung, Maxtor, Quantum, IBM
(HGST), HITACHI, TOSHIBA), for various capacities (from 500 MB to 6 TB),
for file systems FAT, exFAT, NTFS, EXT2/3/4, HFS+, UFS1/2, XFS,
ReiserFS, VMFS and virtual images VMDK, and VHD.

The PC-3000 Express System is a highly recommended data recovery tool
when time and speed of data recovery are top priority, as four data
recovery tasks can be performed at the same time at the maximum possible
speed. The PC-3000 Express Professional System consists of the PC-3000
Express hardware-software and the Data Extractor Express software.

Check out the specs
[here](https://www.acelab.eu.com//pc3000.Express.php)

## <span id="PC-3000 UDMA"></span> PC-3000 UDMA

The PC-3000 UDMA Professional System is a hardware-software solution for
diagnosing, repairing and recovering data from damaged HDD based on SATA
(Serial ATA) and ATA (IDE) interfaces for numerous vendors (Seagate,
Western Digital, Fujitsu, Samsung, Maxtor, Quantum, IBM (HGST), HITACHI,
TOSHIBA), for various capacities (from 500MB to 6 TB) and various form
factors: 3.5" - desktop drives, 2.5" and 1.8" - laptop drives.

The PC-3000 UDMA Professional System consists of PC-3000 UDMA
hardware-software and Data Extractor UDMA software.

Check out the specs [here](https://www.acelab.eu.com//pc3000.udma.php)

## <span id="PC-3000 Portable"></span> PC-3000 Portable

The PC-3000 Portable Professional System is the mobile hardware-software
solution for diagnosing, repairing and recovering data from damaged HDDs
based on SATA (Serial ATA) and ATA (IDE) interfaces for numerous vendors
(Seagate, Western Digital, Fujitsu, Samsung, Maxtor, Quantum, IBM
(HGST), HITACHI, TOSHIBA), for various capacities (from 500 MB to 6 TB)
and various file systems FAT, exFAT, NTFS, EXT2/3/4, HFS+, UFS1/2, XFS,
ReiserFS, VMFS and virtual images VMDK, VHD. The PC-3000 Portable is the
full-featured PC-3000 data recovery solution for situations when you
need to recover data on-site. Due to its mobility, the PC-3000 Portable
Professional System is widely used in forensic labs.

The PC-3000 Portable Professional System consists of the PC-3000
Portable hardware-software and the Data Extractor Portable software.

Check out the specs [here](https://www.acelab.eu.com/pc-3000-portable-iii-systems.php)

## <span id="PC-3000 SAS/SCSI"></span> PC-3000 SAS/SCSI

The PC-3000 SAS/SCSI Professional System is the most powerful solution
for recovering data from damaged HDDs with SAS (Serial Attached SCSI)
and SCSI based interfaces, for capacities from 18 GB to 2 TB, for file
systems FAT, exFAT, NTFS, EXT2/3/4, HFS+, UFS1/2, XFS, ReiserFS, VMFS
and for VMDK or VHD virtual images. The new generation of the PC-3000
SAS/SCSI Professional System for recovering data from SAS and SCSI HDDs
works with HDDs at the maximum possible speeds – it is limited only by
the speeds of the HDDs.

The PC-3000 SAS/SCSI Professional System consists of the PC-3000 SAS
hardware-software and the Data Extractor SAS software.

Check out the specs [here](https://www.acelab.eu.com/SAS6System)

## <span id="PC-3000 Flash"></span> PC-3000 Flash

The PC-3000 Flash is based on ACE Lab's proprietary technology of
getting direct access to Flash memory microchips. It is widely used for
chip-off recovery. This technology greatly increases the chances of
successful data recovery even when the storage device is physically
damaged. The PC-3000 Flash contains an up-to-date large memory chip
database that allows you to identify and read microchips in automatic
mode. Complicated stack organizations which consist of several parts are
automatically detected by the PC-3000 Flash as well.

Check out the specs [here](https://www.acelab.eu.com//pc3000flash.php)

## <span id="PC-3000 SSD"></span> PC-3000 SSD

The PC-3000 SSD Software System operates on top of one of the three
up-to-date hardware platforms – PC-3000 Express, PC-3000 UDMA, or
PC-3000 Portable – and it is intended for SSD diagnostics and data
recovery from SSDs with SATA, PATA, mSATA, and M.2 (NGFF) interfaces and
the capacity from 64 GB to 1 Tb produced by different manufacturers,
such as OCZ, Corsair, Crucial, RunCore, A-DATA, G.Skill, Micron,
Plextor, Intel, Samsung, Seagate, SanDisk, Kingston and others.

The PC-3000 SSD contains a set of specialized utilities for working with
solid-state drives. This set includes the Universal Utility for
diagnosing any SSD based on the ATA-8 specification (both currently
existing models and those that will be manufactured in future) and the
Active Utilities (Special Utilities) intended for working with a
particular drive model in factory mode. It enables to deeply diagnose
SSDs, to perform service operations, to re-write the drive's microcode,
to get direct access to memory chips, to carry out low-level formatting
blocking the damaged cells and placing their addresses into the defect
table, and to perform many other useful operations.

## <span id="PC-3000 Data Extractor"></span> PC-3000 Data Extractor

Using the Data Extractor you can create full (sector-by-sector) or
partial data copies from the damaged drive to a good one connected to
the port of the PC-3000 board, the motherboard or in image-files.

It is very important to read the maximum data volume in the shortest
period of time as a damaged HDD can stop functioning at any time. The
Data Extractor has integrated functionality for logical analysis of file
systems which allows for reading of only necessary data. This technology
greatly reduces the volume of read data, the duty cycle of damaged HDDs
and the time required for data recovery. The Data Extractor has extended
functionality for HDD reading:

- HDD reading in factory mode
- reading by head map
- choosing the reading mode (UDMA 133/100/66/33, PIO 4/3/2/1/0)
- read forward and backward
- read ahead (cash function) disabling
- autorelocation disabling
- reading with hardware and software retries
- reading with ignoring ECC
- reading by used/unused sectors map
- power supply control
- software and hardware resets

The "Create virtual translator" option enables recovery of data from an
HDD with a corrupted dynamic translator. File system metadata and user
data are used in this mode.

There are some special modes for recovering data from logically damaged
HDDs:

- "Explorer" mode – to get access to the damaged partitions, folders and
  files
- "Raw recovery" mode – to recover data when file system structures are
  catastrophically damaged
- "Object map" mode – to work with fragmented structures (reading, copy
  creation etc)
- "Quick disk analysis" mode – to solve cases with damaged information
  about partitions
- "Partition data analysis" and other special modes for each file system
  – to recover data from specific damaged file system (including data
  deleted by users)
- Modes for viewing and editing metadata in various file systems
- Building maps of used/unused sectors, metadata and file system data

**Using the Data Extractor Express for forensic purposes**

The Data Extractor Express has special modes used by forensic
investigators:

- hash sum calculation for MD5 and SHA1
- exporting catalogs list and files into csv format
- building various maps: disk maps, used/unused sectors maps, file
  system metadata maps etc
- unlocking the HDD
- changing/resetting to factory value of MaxLBA HDD
- HDD mounting in “read-only” mode
- HDD data copy creation and reading to several recipients