docs/sans_investigative_forensic_toolkit_workstation.md, before:

---
tags:
  -  Articles that need to be expanded
  -  Tools
  -  Linux
  -  Windows
  -  MacOS
  -  Disk Analysis
---
**The SANS SIFT Workstation** is a [VMware](vmware.md) Appliance
that is preconfigured with all the necessary tools to perform a forensic
examination. It is compatible with [Expert Witness
Format](encase.md), Advanced Forensic Format
([aff](aff.md) evidence formats.

## Overview

SIFT Workstation is based on Ubuntu.

Software Includes:

1.  [The Sleuth Kit](the_sleuth_kit.md)
2.  [ssdeep](ssdeep.md) & [md5deep](md5deep.md)
3.  [Foremost](foremost.md)/[Scalpel](scalpel.md)
4.  [Wireshark](wireshark.md)
5.  HexEditor
6.  [Vinetto](vinetto.md) ([thumbs.db](thumbs.db.md)
    examination)
7.  Pasco
8.  Rifiuti
9.  [Volatility Framework](volatility_framework.md)
10. DFLabs PTK (GUI Front-End for [The Sleuth Kit](the_sleuth_kit.md)
11. [Autopsy](autopsy.md) (GUI Front-End for
    [The Sleuth Kit](the_sleuth_kit.md)

The SIFT Workstation will allow evidence to be viewed from a Windows
workstation. The /images directory and the evidence mount point, the
/mnt/hack directory, can be viewed from the local Windows operating
system.

## Links

* [Computer Forensics and e-Discovery downloads](http://forensics.sans.org/community/downloads/)

Commit message:

Moved SIFT information out of Ubuntu article #108

docs/sans_investigative_forensic_toolkit_workstation.md, after:

---
tags:
  - Articles that need to be expanded
  - Disk Analysis
  - Linux
  - MacOS
  - Tools
  - Windows
---
**The SANS SIFT Workstation** is a [VMware](vmware.md) Appliance, built on top
of [Ubuntu](ubuntu.md), that is preconfigured with all the necessary tools to
perform a forensic examination. It is compatible with [Expert Witness Format](encase.md),
Advanced Forensic Format ([aff](aff.md)) evidence formats.

## Overview

SIFT Workstation is based on Ubuntu.

Software Includes:

1.  [The Sleuth Kit](the_sleuth_kit.md)
2.  [ssdeep](ssdeep.md) & [md5deep](md5deep.md)
3.  [Foremost](foremost.md)/[Scalpel](scalpel.md)
4.  [Wireshark](wireshark.md)
5.  HexEditor
6.  [Vinetto](vinetto.md) ([thumbs.db](thumbs.db.md) examination)
7.  Pasco
8.  Rifiuti
9.  [Volatility Framework](volatility_framework.md)
10. DFLabs PTK (GUI Front-End for [The Sleuth Kit](the_sleuth_kit.md)
11. Autopsy (GUI Front-End for [The Sleuth Kit](the_sleuth_kit.md)

The SIFT Workstation will allow evidence to be viewed from a Windows
workstation. The /images directory and the evidence mount point, the /mnt/hack
directory, can be viewed from the local Windows operating system.

## Links

* [Computer Forensics and e-Discovery downloads](http://forensics.sans.org/community/downloads/)
