---
tags:
  -  Encryption
  -  Anti-Forensics
  -  Disk Encryption
  -  Open Source Software
  -  Windows
  -  MacOS
  -  Linux
---
**TrueCrypt** is an open source program to create and mount virtual
encrypted disks in [Windows Vista/XP/2000](windows.md) and
[Linux](linux.md) and [OS X](mac_os_x.md) as well as
[Full Disk Encryption](full_disk_encryption.md) on Windows. It
provides two levels of plausible deniability (hidden values / no
signatures to make a distinction from random data), on the fly
encryption and supports [AES](aes.md),
[Serpent](serpent.md) and [Twofish](twofish.md). As of
version 6.0 TrueCrypt now supports hidden Operating Systems under
Windows only.

As of May 28, 2014 development to the software has been discontinued.
the two major alternatives are VeraCrypt and CipherShed.

## Detection

TrueCrypt volumes can be detected by

- size of file or collection of clusters object modulo 512 is zero, that
  is size divided by zero has no remainder,
- minimum size of object is 19KB, although by default is minimum 5MB,
- contains no specific file signature throughout the entire object, and
- has a high Shannon entropy or passes Chi-squared distribution test.

## Forensic Acquisition

If you encounter a system that has a mounted TrueCrypt drive, it is
imperative that you capture the contents of the encrypted drive before
shutting down the system. Once the system is shutdown, the contents will
be inaccessible unless you have the proper encryption key generated by a
user's password. You may also need an additional datafile.

## Attacks

The only option for acquiring the content of a dismounted TrueCrypt
drive is to do a brute-force password guessing attack.
[AccessData's](accessdata.md) Password Recovery
Toolkit and Distributed Network
Attack ([dna](dna.md)) can both perform such an attack, but DNA
is faster. Another solution is
[unprotect.info](unprotect.info.md) that can brute-force
password to the file-based encrypted volumes.

TrueCrypt also supports keyfiles (it uses the first 1024 kilobytes of
any file, but can also use it's PRNG to generate such keys). It is
important to look for anything that might be used as a keyfile (such as
a 1024k file on a USB stick).

## Hidden volumes

Hidden volume is a volume hidden within the free space of another
TrueCrypt volume. Even when the outer volume is mounted, it is hard to
prove whether there is a hidden volume or not.

When a hidden volume is mounted, the operating system and third-party
applications may write to non-hidden volumes information about the data
stored in the hidden volume (e.g. filenames). It is important to look
for such kind of information.

Previous versions of encrypted containers may be found in the journaling
filesystems. It is important to track any changes within the free space
of the outer container to detect presence of a hidden container.

## Hidden Operating Systems

Hidden operating system is a system that is installed in a hidden
TrueCrypt volume.

It is possible to detect network-enabled hidden operating systems by
matching downloaded content (from a network dump) with data on a
possible decoy system.

Investigator can also detect boot times by searching network dumps for
IP packets with low IDs (only if [Windows](windows.md) system is
permanently connected to a LAN) and [TCP
timestamps](tcp_timestamps.md).

## External Links

- [Official website](http://www.truecrypt.org/)
- [Version history](https://truecrypt.sourceforge.net/)
- [Identifying TrueCrypt Volumes For Fun (and Profit?)](https://www.brimorlabsblog.com/2014/01/identifying-truecrypt-volumes-for-fun.html),
  by Brian Moran, January 20, 2014
